Multiple changes for the Appium Test Configuration options (#1427)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/dev/test-configuration-options.md

## What You'll Need

- A Sauce Labs account ([Log in](https://accounts.saucelabs.com/am/XUI/#login/) or sign up for a [free trial license](https://saucelabs.com/sign-up))

## Terminology

When setting up your test, you'll need to configure your script with settings called _capabilities_ that align with your test environment (e.g., desktop browser, mobile web browser, mobile app). While each environment has its own set of capabilities, they can also be combined. Some are required for a test to run in a given environment, while some are optional.

You'll need to add these configurations to the [capabilities](https://www.selenium.dev/selenium/docs/api/javascript/module/selenium-webdriver/index_exports_Capabilities.html) or [options](https://www.selenium.dev/documentation/en/driver_idiosyncrasies/driver_specific_capabilities/) classes.

> - **[W3C WebDriver Capabilities](#browser-w3c-capabilities--optional)**: Required for any test using Selenium or Appium to communicate with the browser. W3C WebDriver capabilities are universal capabilities for any test, and are usually combined with additional capabilities. [Learn more](/dev/w3c-webdriver-capabilities).
> - **[Sauce Labs Capabilities](#desktop-and-mobile-capabilities-sauce-specific--optional)**: Needed for running a test on the Sauce Labs Cloud, with different possible sets for different environments. Though there aren't any capabilities required, you will need to [configure the endpoint URL](/basics/data-center-endpoints) and should pass the test name and status as capabilities to the remote webdriver.
> - **Appium Capabilities**: Required for tests using Appium on mobile apps and Appium on mobile web browsers.
>   - **[Mobile App Capabilities](#mobile-app-appium-capabilities-required)**: Required if you're running a test on a mobile app.
>   - **Mobile Web Capabilities**: Required if you're using Appium to test a web app. You'll need to set the `deviceName`, `platformName` `platformVersion`, and `automationName` the same way you would for a mobile app test, along with settings for the browser.
> - **[Browser-Specific Capabilities](#desktop-browser-capabilities-sauce-specific--optional)**: Optional, browser-specific Sauce Labs capabilities.
> - **Browser Vendor Capabilities**: Each browser also has its own set of pre-defined options you can set to help you test. You can add these in regular capabilities or options, or use the browser-defined capabilities (browser options classes) to configure your browser tests:
>   - [Chrome Capabilities](https://chromedriver.chromium.org/capabilities)
>   - [Microsoft Edge Capabilities](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webdriver-chromium/capabilities-edge-options)
>   - [Firefox Capabilities](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Capabilities/firefoxOptions)
>   - [Internet Explorer Capabilities](https://www.selenium.dev/selenium/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/ie/InternetExplorerDriver.html)
>   - [Safari Capabilities](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/webkit/about_webdriver_for_safari)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**[W3C WebDriver Capabilities](#browser-w3c-capabilities--optional)**: Required for any test using Selenium or Appium to communicate with the browser. W3C WebDriver capabilities are universal capabilities for any test, and are usually combined with additional capabilities. [Learn more](/dev/w3c-webdriver-capabilities).
**[Sauce Labs Capabilities](#desktop-and-mobile-capabilities-sauce-specific--optional)**: Needed for running a test on the Sauce Labs Cloud, with different possible sets for different environments. Though there aren't any capabilities required, you will need to [configure the endpoint URL](/basics/data-center-endpoints) and should pass the test name and status as capabilities to the remote webdriver.
**Appium Capabilities**: Required for tests using Appium on mobile apps and Appium on mobile web browsers.
  **[Mobile App Capabilities](#mobile-app-appium-capabilities-required)**: Required if you're running a test on a mobile app.
  **Mobile Web Capabilities**: Required if you're using Appium to test a web app. You'll need to set the `deviceName`, `platformName` `platformVersion`, and `automationName` the same way you would for a mobile app test, along with settings for the browser.
**[Browser-Specific Capabilities](#desktop-browser-capabilities-sauce-specific--optional)**: Optional, browser-specific Sauce Labs capabilities.
**Browser Vendor Capabilities**: Each browser also has its own set of pre-defined options you can set to help you test. You can add these in regular capabilities or options, or use the browser-defined capabilities (browser options classes) to configure your browser tests:
  * [Chrome Capabilities](https://chromedriver.chromium.org/capabilities)
  * [Microsoft Edge Capabilities](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webdriver-chromium/capabilities-edge-options)
  * [Firefox Capabilities](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Capabilities/firefoxOptions)
  * [Internet Explorer Capabilities](https://www.selenium.dev/selenium/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/ie/InternetExplorerDriver.html)
  * [Safari Capabilities](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/webkit/about_webdriver_for_safari)
```

:::

---

### `browserName`

<p><small>| STRING |</small></p>

Identifies the user agent. See the [WebDriver W3C Specification](https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/#dfn-browser-name) for more information. This setting also applies to emulators, simulators and real devices when automating with a mobile browser. It must be set when [App Name](#app) is not set.

> - For Android v5 and below, the value needs to be `"Browser"`, v6 and above, it is `"Chrome"`.
> - For iOS, the value needs to be `"Safari"`.
> - For mobile native or hybrid apps, the value needs to be an empty String.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For Android v5 and below, the value needs to be `"Browser"`, v6 and above, it is `"Chrome"`.
* For iOS, the value needs to be `"Safari"`.
* For mobile native or hybrid apps, the value needs to be an empty String.
```

- This capability can be omitted for virtual devices if the ['browserName'](#browserName) capability is set.
- If this capability is not provided for a real device session and also the ['browserName'](#browserName) capability is not provided then a real device session will automatically default back to the default browser. This will be Chrome for Android and Safari for iOS
:::

```java
MutableCapabilities capabilities = new MutableCapabilities();
capabilities.setCapability("appium:app", "storage:filename=my_app.zip");
```

:::tip Using Storage Id
If you have an app you have uploaded to [Sauce storage](https://app.saucelabs.com/live/app-testing), you can also set the `app` capability to `"storage:xxxxxxxxx-xxxxxxx-xxx"` and enter the **FILE ID** for your app. This allows you to set which specific version you uploaded, otherwise if you use the file name, it will use the latest one uploaded with the exact same name.
:::

---

### `appium:orientation`

<p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING | <span className="sauceDBlue">Virtual and Real Devices</span> |</small></p>

Specifies the orientation of the screen during the test. Valid values are `PORTRAIT` and `LANDSCAPE`.

:::important

> This capability is an Appium capability and needs to be pre-fixed with `appium:` so it becomes `appium:orientation`. It can be used for virtual device mobile tests **and** for real device tests. It will only flip the screen. The capability `deviceOrientation` will flip the skin **and** the screen, see [`deviceOrientation`](#deviceorientation) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This capability is an Appium capability that needs to be pre-fixed with `appium:` so it becomes `appium:orientation`. It can be used for virtual device mobile tests and real device tests. The`appium:orientation` capability will only flip the screen while the capability `deviceOrientation` will flip the skin and the screen. See [`deviceOrientation`](#deviceorientation) for more information.
```

:::

```java
MutableCapabilities capabilities = new MutableCapabilities();
capabilities.setCapability("appium:orientation", "LANDSCAPE");
```

---

### `appium:noReset`

<p><small>| OPTIONAL | BOOLEAN | <span className="sauceDBlue">Virtual and Real Devices</span> |</small></p>

**For Virtual Devices:**

Set `noReset` to `true` when you execute multiple tests on a single virtual device to keep the state it is in between tests.

**For Real Devices:**

Set `noReset` to `true` to keep a device allocated to you during the device cleaning process, as described under [`cacheId`](#`cacheId`), allowing you to continue testing on the same device. Default value is `false`. To use `noReset`, you must pair it with `cacheId`.

**Specifics for Android Virtual and Real Devices:**

> If set to `true` it does:
> - not stop the app after a test/session, 
> - not clear app data between tests/sessions, 
> - not uninstall apk after a test/session
> 
> **Specifics for iOS Virtual:**
> 
> If set to `true` it does:
> - not stop the app after a test/session, 
> - not clear app data between tests/sessions, 
> - not uninstall apk after a test/session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `noReset` is set to `true`:
* The app does not stop after a test/session.
* The app data will not be cleared between tests/sessions.
* Apk will not be uninstalled after a test/session.

**Specifics for iOS Virtual:**

If `noReset` set to `true`:
* The app will not stop after a test/session.
* The app will not clear between tests/sessions.
* Apk will not be uninstalled after a test/session.
```

**Specifics for iOS Real Devices:**

On iOS devices, the `noReset` value is permanently set to `true` and cannot be overridden using `noReset:false`. If you check your Appium logs, you'll see that the value is `true`, even though the default setting technically is false. We've done this intentionally to ensure that your post-test iOS device cleaning process is optimal and secure.

```java
MutableCapabilities capabilities = new MutableCapabilities();
capabilities.setCapability("appium:noReset", true);
```

---

### `appium:newCommandTimeout`

<p><small>| DURATION | INTEGER | <span className="sauceDBlue">Virtual and Real Devices</span> |</small></p>

> Sets the amount of time, in seconds, a test can wait for the next command to execute on a real device before timing out. The default value is 60 seconds and the maximum allowed value is **not** limited for Virtual devices and **is** limited to 90 seconds for Real Devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sets the amount of time  in seconds. If there is no response during this time, the next executed command on the Virtual/Real Device will time out. The default value is 60 seconds while the maximum allowed value is not limited for Virtual Devices and is limited to 90 seconds for Real Devices.
```

```java
MutableCapabilities capabilities = new MutableCapabilities();
capabilities.setCapability("appium:newCommandTimeout", 90);
```

## More Appium specific capabilities
There are more Appium capabilities which are specific for each Appium Driver. They can be found here

> - **Android**
>   - [UIAutomator2-Driver](https://github.com/appium/appium-uiautomator2-driver#capabilities)
>   - [Espresso-Driver](https://github.com/appium/appium-espresso-driver#capabilities)
> - **iOS**
>   - [XCUITest-Driver](https://github.com/appium/appium-xcuitest-driver#capabilities)
> - [Flutter-Driver (Android and iOS)](https://github.com/appium-userland/appium-flutter-driver#desired-capabilities-for-flutter-driver-only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Android**
* [UIAutomator2-Driver](https://github.com/appium/appium-uiautomator2-driver#capabilities)
* [Espresso-Driver](https://github.com/appium/appium-espresso-driver#capabilities)

**iOS**
* [XCUITest-Driver](https://github.com/appium/appium-xcuitest-driver#capabilities)
* [Flutter-Driver (Android and iOS)](https://github.com/appium-userland/appium-flutter-driver#desired-capabilities-for-flutter-driver-only)
```

## Mobile App Appium Capabilities: Sauce-Specific – Optional

Optional, Sauce-specific capabilities that you can use in your Appium tests. They can be added to the `sauce:options` block of your session creation code.

---
### `deviceOrientation`
<p><small>|OPTIONAL | STRING| <span className="sauceDBlue">Virtual Devices Only</span> |</small></p>

> Specifies the orientation of the virtual skin **and** screen during the test. Valid values are `PORTRAIT` and `LANDSCAPE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies the orientation of the virtual skin and screen during the test. Valid values are `PORTRAIT` and `LANDSCAPE`.
```

**For Android Emulators**

Each Android emulator skin will have a different configuration depending on the phone or tablet that it emulates. For example, all the skins have different resolutions, screen dimensions, pixel densities, memory, etc. You can use our [Platform Configurator](https://saucelabs.com/platform/platform-configurator) to get a list of the available Android emulator skins for the various Android emulator versions.

**Examples**

```java
MutableCapabilities capabilities = new MutableCapabilities();
// For a real device
capabilities.setCapability("appium:deviceName", "Samsung Galaxy S20");
// For an Android Emulator
capabilities.setCapability("appium:deviceName", "Google Nexus 7 HD Emulator");
// For an iOS Simulator
capabilities.setCapability("appium:deviceName", "iPhone XS Simulator");
```

---

### `appium:automationName`

<p><small>| OPTIONAL for  <span className="sauceDBlue">Appium 1.x (JWP)</span> | MANDATORY for  <span className="sauceDBlue">Appium 2.0 (W3C)</span> | STRING  |</small></p>

Allows you to set the automation engine that will be used.
Possible values are:

> 
> - **Emulators / Simulators:**
>   - **Android:** `UiAutomator2`, `Espresso`, `Flutter`
>   - **iOS:** `XCUITest`, `Flutter`
> - **Real Devices**
>   - **Android:** `UiAutomator2`
>   - **iOS:** `XCUITest`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

 **Emulators / Simulators:**
 * **Android:** `UiAutomator2`, `Espresso`, `Flutter`
 * **iOS:** `XCUITest`, `Flutter`
**Real Devices**
  * **Android:** `UiAutomator2`
  * **iOS:** `XCUITest`
```

- This capability can be omitted for virtual devices if the ['app'](#app) capability is set.
- If this capability is not provided for a real device session and also the ['app'](#app) capability is not provided then a real device session will automatically default back to the default browser. This will be Chrome for Android and Safari for iOS
:::

```java
MutableCapabilities capabilities = new MutableCapabilities();
capabilities.setCapability("browserName", "chrome");
```

---

### `appium:app`

<p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING | <span className="sauceDBlue">Virtual and Real Devices</span> |</small></p>

Allows you to set a path to an `.ipa`, `.apk`, `.aab` or `.zip` file containing the mobile app you want to test. This could be the location of your app in [App Storage](/mobile-apps/app-storage) (e.g., `storage:filename=myapp.zip`) or the URL to a remote location where your app is located (e.g., `http://myappurl.zip`). The remote location needs to be accessible from the web, Sauce Connect can not access your internal file system where apps are hosted.

> :::note
> - If this capability is not provided for a virtual device, the ['browserName'](#browserName) capability needs to be set. If none is set the test will throw an error.
> - This capability can be omitted for virtual devices if the ['browserName'](#browserName) capability is set.
> - If this capability is not provided for a real device session and also the ['browserName'](#browserName) capability is not provided then a real device session will automatically default back to the default browser. This will be Chrome for Android and Safari for iOS
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
* If this capability is not provided for a virtual device, the ['browserName'](#browserName) capability needs to be set. If none is set the test will throw an error.
* This capability can be omitted for virtual devices if the ['browserName'](#browserName) capability is set.
* If this capability is not provided for a real device session and also the ['browserName'](#browserName) capability is not provided then a real device session will automatically default back to the default browser. This will be Chrome for Android and Safari for iOS.
:::
```

```java
MutableCapabilities capabilities = new MutableCapabilities();
capabilities.setCapability("appium:app", "storage:filename=my_app.zip");
```

> :::tip Using Storage Id
> If you have an app you have uploaded to [Sauce storage](https://app.saucelabs.com/live/app-testing), you can also set the `app` capability to `"storage:xxxxxxxxx-xxxxxxx-xxx"` and enter the **FILE ID** for your app. This allows you to set which specific version you uploaded, otherwise if you use the file name, it will use the latest one uploaded with the exact same name.
> :::
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip Using Storage Id
If your app has been uploaded to [Sauce storage](https://app.saucelabs.com/live/app-testing), you can set the `app` capability to `"storage:xxxxxxxxx-xxxxxxx-xxx"` and enter the **FILE ID** for your app. This allows you to set which specific version you uploaded. Otherwise, if you use the file name it will select the latest version uploaded with the exact same name.
:::

```

5. Look for the **Logs** row and select **Appium Log**. The first line indicates the Appium version. For example, `2019-05-05T17:45:07.541Z - info: Welcome to Appium v1.21.0`.

---

### `deviceType`

<p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING | <span className="sauceDBlue">Real Devices Only</span> |</small></p>

Specifies the type of device type to emulate. Options are: `tablet` and `phone`.

```java
MutableCapabilities capabilities = new MutableCapabilities();
//...
MutableCapabilities sauceOptions = new MutableCapabilities();
sauceOptions.setCapability("deviceType", "tablet");
capabilities.setCapability("sauce:options", sauceOptions);
```

---

### `otherApps`

<p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING or LIST |<span className="sauceDBlue">Real Devices Only</span> |</small></p>

> A dependent app that has already been uploaded to [App Storage](/mobile-apps/app-storage) that will be pre-installed on the device under test for use during testing the main app. You can specify the app using its `storage:<fileId>` or `storage:filename=<filename>` reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A dependent app that has already been uploaded to [App Storage](/mobile-apps/app-storage) will be pre-installed on the device during the testing of the main app. You can specify the app using its `storage:<fileId>` or `storage:filename=<filename>` reference.
```

```java
MutableCapabilities capabilities = new MutableCapabilities();
//...
MutableCapabilities sauceOptions = new MutableCapabilities();
sauceOptions.setCapability("publicDevicesOnly", true);
capabilities.setCapability("sauce:options", sauceOptions);
```

---

### `carrierConnectivityOnly`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | BOOLEAN | <span className="sauceDBlue">Real Devices Only</span> | <span className="sauceDBlue">Private Devices Only</span> |</small></p>

Use this capability to allocate only devices connected to a carrier network by setting it to `"true"`. For [**_Dynamic Allocation_**](/mobile-apps/automated-testing/appium/real-devices).

```java
MutableCapabilities capabilities = new MutableCapabilities();
//...
MutableCapabilities sauceOptions = new MutableCapabilities();
sauceOptions.setCapability("carrierConnectivityOnly", true);
capabilities.setCapability("sauce:options", sauceOptions);
```

---

### `cacheId`

<p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING | <span className="sauceDBlue">Real Devices Only</span> |</small></p>

> Keeps a device allocated to you between test sessions, bypassing the device cleaning process and session exit that occurs by default after each test completes. Normally, you'd need to start over and reopen another device. You'll need to launch your next test within 10 seconds of your previous test ending to ensure that the same device will be allocated for the test (not cleaned or reset).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keeps the device allocated to you between test sessions and bypasses the device cleaning process and session exit that occurs by default after each test completes. Normally, you'd need to start over and reopen another device. You'll need to launch your next test within 10 seconds of your previous test ending to ensure that the same device will be allocated for the test (not cleaned or reset).
```

> Keeps a device allocated to you between test sessions, bypassing the device cleaning process and session exit that occurs by default after each test completes. Normally, you'd need to start over and reopen another device. You'll need to launch your next test **within 10 seconds** of your previous test ending to ensure that the same device will be allocated for the test (not cleaned or reset).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keeps a device allocated to you between test sessions, bypassing the device cleaning process and session exit that occurs by default after each test completes. Normally, you'd need to start over and reopen another device. You'll need to launch your next test within 10 seconds of your previous test ending to ensure that the same device will be allocated for the test (not cleaned or reset).
```

```

---

### `custom-data`

<p><small>| OPTIONAL | OBJECT | <span className="sauceDBlue">Desktop and Virtual Devices Only</span> |</small></p>

User-defined custom data that will accept any valid JSON object, limited to 64KB in size.

```java
MutableCapabilities capabilities = new MutableCapabilities();
//...
MutableCapabilities sauceOptions = new MutableCapabilities();
sauceOptions.setCapability("custom-data", "{'release': '1.0','commit': '0k392a9dkjr','staging': true,'execution_number': 5,'server': ‘test.customer.com'}");
capabilities.setCapability("sauce:options", sauceOptions);
```

---

### `public`

<p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING | <span className="sauceDBlue">Desktop and Virtual Devices Only</span> |</small></p>

We support several test/job result visibility levels, which control who can view the test details. The visibility level for a test can be set manually from the test results page, but also programmatically when starting a test or with our REST API. For more information about sharing test results, see the topics under [Sharing the Results of Sauce Labs Tests](/test-results/sharing-test-results).

Available visibility modes are:

> 
> - **public**:
>   - Accessible to everyone.
>   - May be listed on public web pages and indexed by search engines.
> - **public restricted**:
>   - Share your job's results page and video, but keeps the logs only for you.
>   - Hides the fancy job log.
>   - Prohibits access to the raw Selenium log so that anonymous users with the link will be able to watch the video and screen shots, but won't be able to see what's being typed and done to get there.
> - **share**:
>   - Only accessible to people with a valid link.
>   - Not listed on publicly available pages on Sauce Labs.
>   - Not indexed by search engines.
> - **team**:
>   - Best option if you want to share your jobs with other team members that were created as a sub-accounts of one parent account.
>   - Only accessible to people under the same root account as you.
> - **private**:
>   - Best option if you don't want to share your test results page and video with anyone.
>   - Only you (the owner) will be able to view assets and test results page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* **public**:
  * Accessible to everyone.
  * May be listed on public web pages and indexed by search engines.
* **public restricted**:
  * Share your job's results page and video, but keeps the logs only for you.
  * Hides the fancy job log.
  * Prohibits access to the raw Selenium log so that anonymous users with the link will be able to watch the video and screenshots, but won't be able to see what's being typed and done to get there.
* **share**:
  * Only accessible to people with a valid link.
  * Not listed on publicly available pages on Sauce Labs.
  * Not indexed by search engines.
* **team**:
  * Best option if you want to share your jobs with other team members that were created as a sub-accounts of one parent account.
  * Only accessible to people under the same root account as you.
* **private**:
  * Best option if you don't want to share your test results page and video with anyone.
  * Only you (the owner) will be able to view assets and test results page.
```
